query_group (#8671)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-configs/redshift-configs.md

- [AWS Documentation » Amazon Redshift » Database Developer Guide » Designing Tables » Choosing a Data Distribution Style](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/t_Distributing_data.html)
- [AWS Documentation » Amazon Redshift » Database Developer Guide » Designing Tables » Choosing Sort Keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/t_Sorting_data.html)

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.12">

### Session configuration

The Redshift adapter supports the `query_group` session parameter, enabling dbt runs to tag queries for Redshift Workload Manager (WLM) and query logging (for example, `STL_QUERY` and `SVL_QLOG`). You can set `query_group` at the profile level (default for the connection) and override it at the model level.

> - Profile-level configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Profile-level configuration**
```

> The Redshift adapter now supports the `query_group` session parameter, enabling dbt runs to tag queries for the Redshift Workload Manager (WLM) and query logging. When configured, dbt sets the `query_group` value when opening a connection and applies it for the duration of that session. Support exists at both the profile and model level, allowing users to specify a default `query_group` for all executions or override it for individual model materializations.

Reviewer: Same question as above.
```suggestion
The Redshift adapter supports the `query_group` session parameter, enabling dbt runs to tag queries for Redshift Workload Manager (WLM) and query logging (for example, `STL_QUERY` and `SVL_QLOG`). You can set `query_group` at the profile level (default for the connection) and override it at the model level.
```

> #### Profile-level configuration

Reviewer: I think we can use a bulleted list for these:
```suggestion
- Profile-level configuration
```
And make sure to indent the content related to profile-level config

Configure `query_group` in your `profiles.yml` to apply a default value to all queries executed using that profile. dbt sets the `query_group` when opening a connection.

<File name="profiles.yml">

```yml
outputs:
  dev:
    type: redshift
    host: CLUSTER_ENDPOINT
    user: REDSHIFT_USER
    password: REDSHIFT_PASSWORD
    dbname: REDSHIFT_DBNAME
    port: 5439
    schema: analytics

>     threads: 4

Reviewer 2: Do we generally include other configuration in docs?
Is there a way to highlight the query_group part?

Author: Hiya @tauhid621, yep, we can include config examples in the docs. I'll review the repo you shared and see if I can add one into the docs

      query_group: QUERY_GROUP_NAME
  ```

  </File>

  ```sql
  -- models/a_default_group.sql

>   -- Runs under query_group = 'dbt_default' (from the profile)

Reviewer: Since the example above uses `QUERY_GROUP_NAME`, should this be
```suggestion
  -- Runs under query_group = 'QUERY_GROUP_NAME' (from the profile)
```

> #### Model-level configuration

Reviewer: I think we can use a bulleted list for these:
```suggestion
- Model-level configuration
```
And make sure to indent the content related to model-level config

  select 1 as id
  ```

> - Model-level configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Model-level configuration**
```

> Set `query_group` in a model’s `config()` block to override the profile-level value for that model only. The configured value applies for the duration of that model’s materialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set `query_group` in a model’s `config()` block to override the default value set at the profile level for that model only. The configured value applies for the duration of that model’s materialization, and dbt reverts it afterward.
```

>   Set query_group in a model’s `config()` block to temporarily override that default for just that model’s execution. dbt applies the model-level value while the model runs and then restores the default value afterward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Set `query_group` in a model's `config()` block to temporarily override the default profile-level value for that model’s execution. dbt applies the model-level value while the model runs and then restores the default value afterward.
```

>   Set `query_group` in a model's `config()` block to temporarily override the default profile-level value for that model’s execution. dbt applies the model-level value while the model runs and then restores the default value afterward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Set `query_group` in a model's `config()` block to temporarily override the default value for that model’s execution. dbt applies the model-level value while the model runs and then restores the default value after model materialization.
```

> #### What SQL dbt executes

Reviewer: We can remove this
```suggestion
```

  -- models/b_override_group.sql

>   -- dbt temporarily sets query_group = 'dbt_finance' for this model, then restores 'dbt_default'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -- dbt temporarily sets query_group = 'dbt_finance' for this model, then restores the default value
```

> When `query_group` is configured, dbt issues a `SET query_group` statement in Redshift to apply the value at the session level.

Reviewer: Is this only applicable to profile level or both?

> When `query_group` is configured, dbt issues a `SET query_group` statement in Redshift to apply the value at the session level.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if we should include this information. This can be omitted as this is related to implementation.

```sql

> SET query_group TO 'query_group'

Reviewer: Should this be
```suggestion
SET query_group TO '<value>'
```
